abase (v.) to humiliate, cause to feel shame; (v.) to hurt the pride of
abash (v.) to embarrass; to cause to be embarrassed
abate (v.) to make less active or intense; (v.) to become less in intensity
abdicate (v.) to give up power
aberration (n.) an aberrant state or condition; (n.) a disorder in a person's mental state; an optical phenomenon which results from the failure of a mirror or lens to produce a good image
abet (v.) to assist or encourage, , often in the case of wrongdoing; (v.) to support, uphold, or maintain; (v.) to contribute to the commission of an offense
abeyance (n.) a temporary suspension or cessation; (n.) a temporary suppression
abhor (v.) to find repugnant, or to shrink back with dislike or horror
abjure (v.) to reject something; (v.) to retract an oath; (v.) to recant
aboriginal (n.) an original inhabitant of any land; (n.) an animal or plant native to the region
abortive (adj.) failing to accomplish an original intent or goal; (adj.) imperfectly formed or developed; (n.) something that is born prematurely; (adj.) made from the skin of a still-born animal
abscond (v.) to run away, often taking someone or something along; (v.) to hide, withdraw or be concealed
absolve (v.) to release from moral wrongdoing; (v.) to grant remission of a sin
abstain (v.) to refrain from engaging in a certain act; (v.) to voluntarily refrain from, especially when having to do with an act involving the appetite or senses
abstemious (adj.) sparing in consumption of, especially in relation to food and drink; (adj.) marked by moderation in indulgence
abyss (n.) a gulf or pit that is either bottomless or which possesses an unfathomable and inconceivable depth; (n.) infinite time
abysmal (adj.) boundless and vast; (adj.) unfathomable
accede (v.) to give into or yield to someone else's wishes or desires; (v.) to be in accordance with; to agree
acclivity (n.) an upward grade or slope, on the earth
accolade (n.) to praise; (n.) a symbol that signifies distinction or approval; (n.) a ceremony that was formerly used to bestow knighthood
accoutre (v.) to provide with military equipment
accretion (n.) an increase brought about by natural growth; (n.) an increase in a beneficiary's awarded portion of an estate
acetic (adj.) containing or relating to acetic acid; vinegary smell or taste, particularly in relation to wine
acidulous (adj.) tasting sour like
acme (n.) the highest degree or level attainable, the highest point of something; mature age; (n.) the crisis or height of a disease
acquiescence (n.) acceptance without resistance or protest; assent or submission; (n.) in criminal law: submission to an injury by the injured party
acquiescent (adj.) willing to carry out someone else's orders or wishes without any protest or dissent; (adj.) submissive
actuate (v.) to trigger a reaction or to move and incite to action; (v.) to carry out or perform
adapt (v.) to modify or change to suit a new purpose or conditions; (v.) to conform one's own self to new conditions or a new environment
addiction (n.) a situation in which someone is dependent on something that is physiologically and/or psychologically habit forming, particularly in relation to alcohol or drugs
adhere (v.) to be in accordance with or compatible with; to carry out a plan without deviation; (v.) to come into close contact with; to be a devoted supporter or follower, in a religious sense
adipose (adj.) composed of animal fat
admonish (v.) to counsel in relation to one's negative behavior; (v.) to warn against strongly; (v.) to take to task
adulterate (adj.) mixed with impurities; (v.) to corrupt or debase by adding a foreign substance
adumbration (n.) a rough summary of the main aspects of an argument or theory; providing vague indications of something in advance
adversity (n.) a state of affliction or misfortune; extreme challenge or hardship; (n.) a stroke of excessively bad fortune
advert (v.) to give heed to; (v.) to make a subversive or overt reference to
advocate (n.) a person who stands for and/or pleads for a cause, idea or person; (n.) a lawyer who pleads a case in a court of law; (v.) to push for or recommend something; (v.) to argue in favor of
aerie (n.) a lofty nest of a bird of prey, such as an eagle or hawk; (n.) a habitation of high altitude
aesthetic (adj.) relating to beauty or good taste; (n.) a specialty in philosophy that relates to what is beautiful and how humans respond to art and beauty in the world
affable (adj.) exemplifying warmth and friendliness; (adj.) gracious and mild
affected (adj.) acted on or influenced; (adj.) experiencing an emotional impact
aggrandize (v.) to add details to; to increase in power; (v.) to make something appear exceedingly great or exalted
affiliation (n.) association in or with a professional or societal group; (n.) connection in terms of descent (from birth)
affray (n.) a noisy fight or quarrel; the act of disturbing someone; fear or fright
agape (adj.) with the mouth wide open due to wonder or awe; (n.) a religious meal shared as a sign of fellowship, love, and respect
aggregate (n.) gathered or having a tendency to gather in a mass or whole; (n.) the whole amount; (v.) to gather in a mass or whole
aghast (adj.) struck with fear, disgust, dismay and/or horror
agnostic (adj.) uncertain of all claims relating to knowledge; (n.) a person who doubts the truth of religion and/or does not hold a particular view or perspective on the existence or nonexistence of God
alacrity (n.) cheerful readiness, promptness, eagerness
agrarian (adj.) agricultural or relating to farms and agriculture, fields or lands; (n.) a person in favor of an equal division of property
alchemy (n.) a forerunner of chemistry, originating from the medieval era; (n.) the manner in which two individuals relate to each other
alias (n.) a temporarily assumed name, other than one's real name
allay (v.) to lessen the intensity of; (v.) to calm; to quench, particularly in terms of thirst
allege (v.) to report or accuse
alleviate (v.) to provide physical relief, particularly from pain; (v.) to make easier
allocate (v.) to distribute according to a particular plan; (v.) to set aside
aloof (adj.) to be somewhat at a distance or apart from a crowd; detached or reserved in mannerisms
altercation (n.) a quarrel or argument
amalgamation (n.) the mixing or blending together of various elements, including races or societies; (n.) the result of such blending; (n.) the combination of two or more commercial companies
ambiguous (adj.) unclear; (adj.) uncertain in nature; open to more than one interpretation
ameliorate (v.) to make something or someone better
amenable (adj.) willing to comply; (adj.) responsible to a higher authority
amnesia (n.) a partial or total loss of memory
amnesty (n.) a period during which criminals are exempt from punishment; (n.) a warrant that grants release from a previously meted out punishment; (v.) the official act of liberating someone, in a legal sense; to grant a pardon
amortize (v.) to gradually liquidate; to clear off or extinguish, particularly in relation to a debt
amuck (adj.) in a murderous tumult; wildly or without self-control
amulet (n.) a piece of jewelry thought to protect an individual against evil
anachronism (n.) something located during a time when it could not have actually existed or occurred; (n.) an artifact that belongs to a different time period; (n.) a person displaced in time
analgesia (n.) the absence of the sense of pain, but with consciousness still in tact
analogy (n.) an insinuation that if things agree in one respect, they agree in others; (n.) a comparison drawn to show similarities
anarchy (n.) a state of disorder and lawlessness, resulting from a lack of or failure in government
anesthetic (adj.) characterized by a lack of sensibility; (n.) a drug that temporarily causes loss of bodily sensations
animus (n.) a feeling of ill-will that arouses hostility or animosity relieve
annul (v.) to declare void or invalid, particularly in the case of a marriage, law or contract; (v.) to eliminate the existence of
antagonism (n.) hostility that results in conflict, resistance or opposition; (n.) the condition of being an opposing force or factor in a situation or system
antipathy (n.) a strong feeling of hostility or dislike
apex (n.) the highest point of something, particularly in the case of a triangle, cone or pyramid
aplomb (n.) poise (n.) self-confidence
apocalyptic (adj.) relating to the apocalypse; involving or implying doom and ultimate devastation; (adj.) of a prophetic nature
apostate (n.) a person who has abandoned his or her political party, religion, or cause
appease (v.) to bring pacification or peace to someone who is upset or contentious; (v.) to satisfy or relieve
appellation (n.) a formal name or title; (n.) the act of naming (officially)
apprehend (v.) to arrest or take an individual into custody; (v.) to mentally grasp a concept or principle
apprehensive (adj.) anxious or fearful about the future; (adj.) capable of understanding concepts quickly
aptitude (n.) an aptitude for learning; a talent; (n.) quickness in understanding, intelligence
archives (n.) a collection of records, particularly related to the history of records of an institution
ardor (n.) a feeling of strong eagerness or enthusiasm; an intense feeling of love; (n.) feelings of warmth and affection
arraign (v.) to command a prisoner or free person accused of a crime to appear in court to answer a charge
arrant (adj.) downright or utter, particularly unqualified
artifact (n.) man-made object
artifice (n.) a clever trick; (n.) skill or cunningness
asceticism (n.) the principles and practices of an ascetic, particularly in relation to extreme self-denial; (n.) self-restraint practiced in relation to a religious or spiritual doctrine or practice that claims the renunciation of worldly pleasures allows one to achieve a higher spiritual state of being
ascribe (v.) to attribute to; (v.) to assign a quality or characteristic
askance (v.) to view with an oblique glance; (v.) to regard with suspicion
askew (adj.) turned or twisted toward one side
aspiration (n.) a desire or will to succeed; a cherished desire; (n.) an expulsion of breath during the active process of speech; the act of inhaling or drawing in air
assail (v.) to violently attack; to criticize; (v.) to cause trouble to
assimilate (v.) to learn, understand and incorporate information; (v.) to adjust or become adjusted to a different environment; to absorb (food)
assuage (v.) to make something less intense or severe; (v.) to satisfy or appease, to pacify or calm
astringent (adj.) causing the contraction of body tissue; severe or harsh; (n.) an drug or lotion that draws pores together and/or causes their contraction
astute (adj.) rapid to apprehend or understand
atrocity (n.) a behavior, event or incident that is characterized by cruelty and wickedness; (n.) an act of extreme cruelty
attrition (n.) a constant wearing down caused by friction; (n.) a gradual decrease in strength, due to consistent stressful conditions; a gradual reduction in membership or personnel; (n.) repentance for a sin, motivated by the fear of God and punishment
augment (v.) to make something larger in size or quantity
augury (n.) the art of foretelling the future by means of various sings; (n.) an omen from which the future if foretold
auspicious (adj.) related to positive and favorable circumstances; (adj.) marked by success and prosperity
austere (adj.) stern, in terms of character or disposition; (adj.) strict or severe in discipline; lacking adornment or decoration
autonomous (adj.) not controlled by other individuals or organizations; (adj.) independent in mind and judgment
avatar (n.) the animal or human incarnation of a Hindu deity, particularly Vishnu; (n.) an embodiment of a quality or concept; a temporary manifestation of an ongoing entity
aver (v.) to officially assert as a fact; (v.) to justify, qualify or prove
avouch (v.) to attest to or declare the validity of; (v.) to confirm; to accept responsibility for an action; to confess
avow (v.) to openly acknowledge; (v.) to positive and undoubtedly profess
axiom (n.) a universally recognized truth; (n.) a seemingly self-evident principle
baffle (v.) to frustrate someone, by perplexing or confusing them; (v.) to impede the force or movement of
baleful (adj.) harmful, threatening or deadly
baneful (adj.) causing distress, death or ruin
barrage (n.) a prolonged attack of words or blows; a curtain of (military) artillery fire to prevent enemy forces from moving or to make way for one's own forces; (n.) a man-made barrier in a stream or river
batten (n.) a sawed strip of wood or flooring; (trans. verb) to fasten canvas over the hatches, especially in preparation for a storm; (v.) to grow fat
bauble (n.) a decorative or showy but worthless object
beguile (v.) to mislead by trickery or deception
beholden (adj.) obliged to feel grateful for or owing thanks
beleaguer (v.) to besiege by encircling; to harass or beset with difficulties
belittle (v.) to make someone feel little or less important, to slight someone
benevolent (adj.) doing or intending to do good
benison (n.) a benediction
berate (v.) to severely rebuke or scold; (v.) to criticize, slate
bestial (adj.) beast-like in behavior, brutish
biennial (adj.) occurring every two years; (adj.) lasting or living for two years
billingsgate (n.) abuse, foul or vulgar language
bivouac (n.) a temporary encampment (usually of military soldiers) exposed out in the open with only tents or little shelter
blandish (v.) to flatter, coax or persuade
blasphemous (adj.) irreverent or profane, particularly in relation to a religious subject
bleak (adj.) unsheltered and exposed to wind and cold; (adj.) cold, cutting and harsh; gloomy; (adj.) not hopeful
bode (v.) to predict or announce in advance
bogus (adj.) not veritable or genuine
boorish (adj.) rude; awkward, ill-mannered
bootless (adj.) useless, without benefit
brackish (adj.) somewhat salty, as might be the waters near a sea; having an displeasing taste; nauseous
breach (n.) a failure to follow through on or complete the agreement and terms of a contract or law; (n.) an opening created by a breakthrough (in a wall); (n.) a break in amicable relations
bristle (n.) any short, stiff or prickly hair of an animal or plant; (intrans. verb) to become stiff and erect; (n.) to show anger, irritation or outrage; (n.) to be thickly covered with
brusque (adj.) abrupt and rough use of language or manner of speech
bumptious (adj.) arrogant, excessively conceited, forward
burlesque (n.) any comic or satirical imitation (for example) in the form of writing, theater or a parody, intending to mock; (adj.) bawdy
burnish (v.) to polish or to make shiny
cabal (n.) a group of plotters or intriguers with conspiratorial intentions; (n.) a secret scheme or plot
cache (n.) a hiding place, especially in the ground for ammunition, food or treasures; (n.) anything so hidden; (v.) to put in a cache
caliber (n.) degree of capacity or competence
calumniate (v.) to make false and malicious statements about
candor (n.) the state or quality of being open, honest, straightforward, open and sincere in communication; (n.) freedom from bias
canter (n.) an easy-going gallop; (v.) to move or ride at a canter
capitulate (v.) to surrender often after negotiation of terms
captious (adj.) characterized by a disposition to find out and point trivial faults; (adj.) intended to entrap or confuse
carnage (n.) the slaughter of numerous people; (n.) those slain in battle
carping (adj.) characterized by trivial fault-finding
caste (n.) any of the social or subclasses of traditional Hindu society, such as the Brahman or Sudra castes; a social class distinct from others and characterized by hereditary rank, profession or wealth; (n.) a social position conferred on someone based on a system of castes
cataclysm (n.) any violent upheaval, particularly of a political or social nature; (n.) an extensive flood
catalyst (n.) (in chemistry), a substance that causes a chemical reaction without itself being affected; (n.) a person or thing that brings about or precipitates change; (n.) a person or event that precipitates a process or change
cathartic (adj.) physically or emotionally purging in nature; (adj.) therapeutic
Catholic (adj.) of or pertaining to the Catholic church; a member of the Catholic church; (adj.) of a broad, liberal or comprehensive scope
cavil (v.) to raise trivial objections; (n.) a trivial or annoying objection
celibate (n.) one who abstains from sexual relations with others; (n.) an individual who remains unmarried
centrifugal (adj.) moving or directed outward from the center; (n.) a rotating, perforated drum that holds materials to be separated in a machine
centripetal (adj.) moving or directed toward an axis or center; (adj.) tending or directed toward centralization
cessation (n.) a temporary discontinuance
chameleon (n.) any of the Old World lizards which can change color; (n.) a changeable or inconstant person
charlatan (n.) a person who pretends to have more knowledge or skill than he or she actually possesses; (n.) a cont artist or fake
chary (adj.) cautious or careful; (adj.) fastidious; sparing
chastise (v.) to criticize severely; (v.) to discipline through corporal punishment
chide (v.) to express disapproval of, to harass or reproach
chimerical (adj.) fantasy, unreal or imaginary; (adj.) highly unrealistic
chronic (adj.) constant and habitual; (adj.) lasting a long time, especially pertaining to a disease
circuitous (adj.) indirect or roundabout
circumlocution (n.) an indirect or roundabout way of speaking
citadel (n.) a fortress in a commanding position in or near a city; a fortified place
claustrophobia (n.) a excessive fear of being in closed or confined spaces
clemency (n.) a willingness to lessen the severity of a given punishment; (n.) an official act of mercy or forgiveness
coalesce (v.) to fuse, grow or mix together
cogent (adj.) believable, convincing or persuasive by clear and forcible presentation; (adj.) to the point
cognomen (n.) a family or surname
cohere (v.) to hold together in a mass that resists separation; (v.) to cause to form a united, aesthetically uniform whole
collaborate (v.) to work together or cooperate; (v.) join forces
colloquial (adj.) characteristic of ordinary conversation, rather than formal speech or writing
comatose (adj.) of, related to or in a coma; (adj.) characterized by lethargy
commensurate (adj.) of the same extent or duration; corresponding in size or degree, proportionate; (adj.) measurable by a common standard
compatible (adj.) capable of existing harmoniously; (adj.) capable of integration with other elements in a system without any additional required modifications
compendium (n.) a complete, short summary; (n.) a list or collection of various items
complement (n.) something that completes or makes something else whole; (n.) a quantity that completes anything; (n.) either of two parts, needed to complete the whole
compliment (n.) an expression of praise (v.) to give someone praise or accolades
compliant (adj.) disposed or willing to comply
conciliate (v.) to overcome the mistrust of; (v.) to regain or attempt to regain friendship; (v.) to attempt to reconcile
concomitant (adj.) existing or occurring with something else
congeal (v.) to solidify or jell by freezing; coagulate
conjecture (n.) the expression of or formulation of a theory without sufficient evidence or proof; (v.) to guess or formulate a theory without sufficient evidence or proof
connotation (n.) an idea or meaning suggested or associated with a word or thing; (n.) the set of associations implied by a word, in addition to its implicit meaning
contentious (adj.) tending to cause argument or strife; (adj.) characterized by argument or controversy
controvert (v.) to be resistant to, to raise arguments against, to oppose
contumacious (adj.) willfully obstinate or stubbornly disobedient; (adj.) insubordinate
conveyance (n.) the act of conveying or transmission
copious (adj.) large in quantity or number; (adj.) having or yielding a plentiful supply; (adj.) exhibiting abundance
corporeal (adj.) of or relating to the body; (adj.) of a material nature
corpulent (adj.) large or bulky in body
countermand (v.) to cancel or reverse an order or transmission previously issued; (n.) cancellation of an order or command
cower (v.) to cringe, crouch or curl up in fear, to show fear
coy (adj.) tending to avoid people or social situations; (adj.) shy or modest in a flirtatious manner; stubbornly unwilling to make a comment
craven (adj.) cowardly, spineless; (n.) a coward
credence (n.) acceptance as truth or valid; trustworthiness; (n.) recommendation, credentials
crone (n.) an ugly and withered woman, a hag
crotchety (adj.) grouchy in nature or characterized by whimsical and odd notions
cryptic (adj.) mysterious in meaning, puzzling; (adj.) secret, occult
cull (v.) to pick out from others, select; (v.) to remove rejected members or parts from
culmination (n.) the highest point or degree of completion
curmudgeon (n.) an ill-tempered person
curtail (v.) to cut short; (v.) reduce, diminish
cynic (n.) a person with a pessimistic outlook and who believes that most people are solely motivated by selfishness
dank (adj.) unpleasantly moist or humid; (adj.) damp, chilly
dastard (n.) a mean-spirited, conniving coward
dearth (n.) a lack, scarcity or inadequate supply
debacle (n.) a breakup or dispersion; (n.) downfall; (n.) a complete collapse or failure; (n.) a violent rush of waters or ice
debonair (adj.) having a sophisticated charm; (adj.) courteous and gracious; carefree
decimate (v.) to destroy a great number or proportion of; (v.) to select and kill every tenth person of a group
decrepit (adj.) weakened or destabilized by old age; (adj.) worn out by extensive use
defile (v.) to make foul, dirty or unclean; (v.) to violate the chastity of; (v.) to make impure or defile
deign (intr. v.) to deem something inappropriate to one's dignity (tr. verb) condescend; (v.) give or grant
demean (v.) to degrade, particularly in terms of social status or dignity
demotic (adj.) of or relating to the common people of a given area or region
denizen (n.) an inhabitant or resident; (n.) someone who frequents a given place
denotation (n.) the act of denoting, that which gives an indication of or points to something, like a. symbol or sign; (n.) the most specific meaning of a given word
deplete (v.) to reduce or eliminate in supply
deprecatory (adj.) expressing criticism or disapproval of; (adj.) uncomplimentary
depreciate (v.) to reduce the value or price of
deride (v.) to laugh at in a contemptuous or scornful manner
descry (v.) to see something by looking carefully at it, to discover or perceive
desecrate (v.) to violate the sacredness of a given object or place
desultory (adj.) not having any set plan; (adj.) moving or jumping about from one subject to the next
dexterous (adj.) skillful with the use of one's hands; (adj.) having mental skill
diatribe (n.) a bitter, sharp or abusive attack or criticism
dichotomy (n.) division into two part or regions
digress (v.) to stray away from the main subject, particularly in writing or speech
dilettante (n.) a dabbler in an art or particular field of knowledge, for the sole sake of amusement
dire (adj.) causing or involving fright and suffering; (adj.) urgent and desperate
disabuse (v.) to free from a falsehood or misconception
disheveled (adj.) in disorder; (adj.) unkempt; (adj.) disarranged
disparage (v.) to speak of in a disrespectful or condescending way; (v.) to reduce in respect or rank
dispirited (adj.) in low spirits; (adj.) lacking enthusiasm
dissipate (v.) to drive away or disperse; (v.) to bring about the loss of energy
dissolute (adj.) lacking in moral restraint
diurnal (adj.) relating to a 24-hour period, daily; (adj.) occurring or active during the daytime
doddering (adj.) shaking or trembling from old age; (adj.) trembling
dolorous (adj.) exhibiting grief, pain and sorry
dolt (n.) a person who lacks bright mental capacity
dotage (n.) a decline of mental faculties; (n.) foolish affection
doughty (adj.) marked by courage and braveness
dross (n.) waste; (adj.) worthless or trivial matter
drudgery (n.) menial and distasteful work
duplicity (n.) deceitfulness in speech or conduct, speaking or acting in two different ways
durance (n.) incarceration or imprisonment
ebullient (adj.) overflowing with enthusiasm or excited; (adj.) bubbling up like a boiling liquid
ecstasy (n.) intense joy or delight; (n.) a trace or state of emotion so intense that one is carried beyond self-control
edify (v.) to instruct or benefit, (v.) particularly in relation to intellectual or spiritual matters; to uplift
effeminate (adj.) having feminine qualities or characteristics; (adj.) characterized by excessive refinement or weakness
effigy (n.) a crude person or figure which represents a hated person or group; (n.) a likeness or image, particularly of a person
efflorescent (adj.) bursting into flower; (adj.) flowering
effusion (n.) a unrestrained expression of emotion; (n.) flow under pressure, such as the escape of bodily fluid from vessels into the tissues or a cavity
egress (n.) the act of coming or going out; (n.) the right to leave or go out; (n.) a path or opening for the purposes of going out (v.) to go out
elucidate (v.) to make lucid or clear, to throw light upon; (v.) to explain or provide clarification
elusive (adj.) tending to elude capture, comprehension or perception; (adj.) difficult to define or describe
emancipate (v.) to free from oppression or restraint; (v.) (as a legal term) to release a child from the control of parents or a. guardian
embellish (v.) to make beautiful by ornamentation; (v.) to decorate; (v.) to add false and fictitious detail to
emend (v.) to edit or change a text; (v.) to correct, or free from faults or errors
eminent (adj.) of high rank in station or quality; (adj.) outstanding in character or performance; (adj.) towering or standing above others
emollient (adj.) softening and soothing, especially to the skin; making less harsh or abrasive
enamored (adj.) inspired by love; captivated; (adj.) marked by foolish or unreasoning fondness
encroach (v.) to advance beyond proper, established or usual limits; (v.) to trespass upon the domain, property or rights of another individual or organization
endue (v.) to gift or provide with a quality or trait; (v.) to put on (a piece of clothing)
engross (v.) to exclusively occupy; (v.) absorb; (v.) to acquire most or all of a commodity or market
enhance (v.) to make greater in beauty, effectiveness or value; (v.) to provide with improved or enhanced features
ennui (n.) listlessness and dissatisfaction; (n.) boredom
enthrall (v.) to captivate or interest; (v.) to enslave
entity (n.) something that exists as a particular unit; (n.) the fact of existence, being; (n.) the existence of something considered separate from its properties
ephemeral (adj.) lasting a very short time; transitory; (adj.) lasting only one day
epilogue (n.) a short poem or speech directed to the audience, given at the end of a play; (n.) the performer who delivers such a poem or speech; a short addition or concluding section at the end of a literary work
epitaph (n.) an inscription on a monument or tombstone in memory of the person buried there within; (n.) a commemoration for someone who has died
equable (adj.) free from many changes or variations; (adj.) uniform
equanimity (n.) the quality of being calm, composed, even-tempered and stable
errant (adj.) roving; (adj.) straying from the appropriate course of action or standards
eschew (v.) to abstain or keep away from; (v.) to shun or avoid
estranged (adj.) displaying a feeling or the characteristic of alienation; (adj.) kept in or at a distance
ethereal (adj.) characterized by insubstantiality, intangible; (adj.) of the celestial spheres
eugenic (adj.) of or related to bringing about improvements in offspring; (adj.) having quality, inherited characteristics
evanescent (adj.) vanishing, fading; (adj.) fleeting; (adj.) tending to become imperceptible
evasive (adj.) tending or seeking to avoid; (adj.) elusive
ewer (n.) a pitcher with a wide spout
exacerbate (v.) to make worse or increase the severity of; (v.) to irritate or exasperate a person
excision (n.) the surgical act of removal
excoriate (v.) to severely berate or denounce (verbally); (v.) to physically strip off or remove the skin from
exegesis (n.) a critical analysis or explanation of a text
exemplary (adj.) commendable
exiguous (adj.) scanty or meager
exodus (n.) a departure that usually involves a large number of people
expedite (v.) to hasten or speed up the progress of; (v.) to quickly accomplish; (v.) to issue or dispatch a document or letter
expiate (v.) to atone or make amends for, particularly in relation to a given individual's crimes
expunge (v.) to erase or obliterate; (v.) to destroy
extol (v.) to lift up; (v.) to praise highly
extricate (v.) to disentangle; (v.) to disengage from a difficult situation
extrinsic (adj.) not essential or inherent qualities; (adj.) outward or external
exude (v.) to discharge or emit; (v.) to exhibit
fabricate (v.) to make up or create; (v.) to concoct in an effort to deceive someone
facile (adj.) easily accomplished or attained; (adj.) expressing yourself readily or clearly
fain (adv.) gladly, willingly; (adj.) content, willing; (v.) to wish or desire
fastidious (adj.) displaying careful attention to detail; (adj.) difficult to please; (adj.) excessively meticulous
fawn (v.) to flatter or grovel, (v.) to seek notice or favor
fecundity (n.) fruitfulness or fertility, the capacity of plentiful production
feign (v.) to invent or represent fictitiously; (v.) to imitate deceptively
fete (n.) a day of celebration or holiday; (n.) a festival
fiasco (n.) a complete and utter failure
fiat (n.) a capricious order or decree, an authoritative sanction
fiduciary (n.) a person to whom property and/or property is entrusted
figment (n.) something that is fabricated or made up
finesse (n.) delicacy and/or refinement in performance; skillful and tactful diplomacy
finicky (adj.) choosy, difficult to please
flaccid (adj.) soft and limp; weak
flamboyant (adj.) strikingly bold or showy, flashy; (adj.) ornate
fledgling (n.) a newborn bird that recently acquired its feathers; (n.) an inexperienced person
fluctuation (n.) continual change from one point to another, particularly related to a pitch or tone in one's voice
fluency (n.) spoken or written with ease, particularly as related to a language; (adj.) easy and graceful; flowing
foible (n.) a defect, flaw or weakness in a character
foist (v.) to force another to accept especially by stealth or deceit
forbearance (n.) tolerance in the face of challenge; (n.) patience
forte (n.) a strong point or skill in which one excels; (n.) the stronger part of a sword blade
fortitude (n.) mental and emotional strength in the face of challenge and adversity
fractious (adj.) uncontrollable and/or unruly; (adj.) easily angered, irritable, quarrelsome
fraught (adj.) filled with specific elements; (adj.) marked by or causing emotional distress
fritter (v.) to squander away; (v.) to tear, break or cut into shreds
frolicsome (adj.) full of fun; (adj.) in good spirits, playful
fructify (v.) to make fruitful or productive; (v.) to bear fruit
frugality (n.) economical in spending, frugal, requiring few resources
fulgent (adj.) brightly shining; (adj.) dazzling
furor (n.) an outburst of excitement or controversy; (n.) a prevailing fad or popular craze; (n.) rage, madness
furtive (adj.) characterized by stealth; (adj.) expressive of concealed motives, purposes or intentions
gaff (n.) harsh treatment or criticism
gambol (n.) a playful skip or frolicking about
garbled (v.) to confuse or distort to the point of that the result is misleading or incomprehensible
garrulous (adj.) chatty and talkative
gazette (adj.) a newspaper or official journal
geniality (n.) having a friendly and pleasant disposition or manner
genre (n.) a type or classification
genuflect (v.) to tend one knee or touch one knee to the ground, in a sign or form of worship; (v.) to express a servile attitude
germane (adj.) connected and relevant
gestate (v.) to carry life from the point of conception to birth; (v.) to conceive and/or develop in the mind
gesticulation (n.) a vigorous motion or gesture
glib (adj.) lacking intellectual depth or capacity; (adj.) possessing only superficial plausibility; (adj.) persuasive in speech
gloaming (n.) the time of day that immediately follows the sunset
glut (v.) to fill (usually with food) beyond capacity; (v.) to flood (a market) with a plethora of goods to cause supply to exceed demand
glutinous (adj.) having sticky and adhesive properties
goad (n.) a long stick with a pointed end, used for prodding animals; (n.) a stimulus or means of urging
gorge (n.) a deep ravine (usually with a river passing through it); to overeat
gourmand (n.) a lover of food
gratuity (n.) money paid which exceeds the amount due, such as in to a waitress or bellhop
hazardous (adj.) risky; (adj.) dependent on chance
heinous (adj.) atrocious, utterly reprehensible
heresy (n.) an opinion or doctrine that is at odds with what is considered orthodox for a given situation or Institution, particularly in relation to religion
hierarchy (n.) a system that involves ranking persons or groups of people above one another; (n.) an organized, governing body
hirsute (adj.) covered with hair; (adj.) furry
hoodwink (v.) to deceive or trick
holster (n.) a leather or fabric case that is used for the purposes of holding a firearm in place; (n.) a case for carrying a small item
hortatory (n.) urging toward a certain choice of behavior or action
hubbub (n.) loud noise; (n.) confusion
humane (n.) characterized by sympathy and caring for people; (adj.) relating to human studies
hummock (n.) a hill or mound
hyperbole (n.) an intentional exaggeration and/or embellishment regarding facts or circumstances; (n.) an overstatement
hypothecate (v.) to pledge to a given creditor without offering any form of security, as in a mortgage
hypothetical (adj.) speculative and theoretical in nature; unconfirmed
idiosyncrasy (n.) a peculiarity or quirk in one's given disposition or behavior
ignominious (adj.) humiliating and/or embarrassing in nature; (adj.) reprehensible and disgraceful
illimitable (adj.) characterized by an unlimited, unending nature
imbibe (v.) to drink, swallow or absorb
imminent (adj.) in the nature future, about to happen or occur
immutable (adj.) not subject to change
impeach (v.) to accuse or bring to court, particularly a public official; (v.) to question or call into account
impenitent (adj.) without regret and unashamed
impervious (adj.) not permitting of passage, impenetrable; (adj.) incapable of injury; (adj.) unmoved by persuasion
impious (adj.) lacking reverence or respect; (adj.) irreverent
implacable (adj.) unable to be pleased or mollified; (adj.) hard-hearted; (adj.) obdurate
imply (v.) to suggest or refer to something without explicitly stating it as such; (v.) to include as a necessary circumstance
importune (v.) to demand by means of solicitation; (v.) to make unwanted advances or suggestions toward someone; (v.) to annoy
impotent (adj.) lacking power or ability; (adj.) incapable; (adj.) lacking in physical strength
impromptu (n.) a circumstance — particularly a speech — given without advanced preparation; (adj.) improvised
impropriety (adj.) the quality of being improper or unsuitable; (adj.) an unseemly expression; (adj.) an incorrect use of a word or phrase; (adj.) rudeness; (adj.) misconduct
impunity (n.) release from punishment or harm; (n.) mercy
imputation (n.) a charge or accusation; (n.) an insinuation
inane (adj.) lacking sense or sincere significance absurd; (adj.) immature
incessant (adj.) continuing without interruption(s); (adj.) ; constant, ceaseless
incontinent (adj.) uncontrolled and/or unrestrained, particularly in bodily function
incontrovertible (adj.) not open for dispute or question; (adj.) irrefutable
incredulous (adj.) skeptical and disbelieving; (adj.) dubious
inculcate (v.) to instill by means of earnest and persistent repetition
indict (v.) to officially charge or accuse, particularly in a court of law
inept (adj.) unskilled and incompetent
inertia (n.) inactivity- specifically in regards to motion
inference (n.) a deduction or supposition about someone or something not arrived at through purely logical means
infraction (n.) a violation or breech of a rule or contract
iniquitous (adj.) characterized by wickedness and/or injustice; (adj.) sinful, immoral
innuendo (n.) a subtle suggestion or implication
inordinate (adj.) excessive and unwarranted; (adj.) overwhelming
insidious (adj.) sinister and dangerous
intrepid (adj.) courageous, fearless and brave
intrinsic (adj.) essential to the nature of someone or something
inundate (v.) to flood or overwhelm in an excessive manner
irreparable (adj.) permanent (damage) beyond repair
iterate (v.) to utter repeatedly, or in repetition
jaundiced (adj.) affected with or colored by jaundice; (adj.) cynical, jaded; (adj.) full of prejudice
jejune (adj.) unsophisticated and sophomoric; (adj.) elementary
jeopardy (n.) risk of death, loss, harm or injury; (n.) danger
jettison (v.) to cast objects overboard in an effort to improve the stability of a moving object; (v.) to throw off something burdensome
jocose (adj.) given to joking and humor
judicious (adj.) using practical and proper judgment; demonstrating wisdom and/or good judgment
juncture (n.) a critical point in time; (n.) a critical or urgent state of affairs, crisis
junta (n.) a military-led government
ken (n.) knowledge and understanding
kith (n.) acquaintances or friends within the same vicinity
kleptomaniac (n.) someone consumed by the impulsive need to steal, without economic motivation
lacerate (v.) to slash or tear
laconic (adj.) terse, brief, to the point, using few words
laggard (n.) a straggler or one who lingers
languor (n.) lack of energy; sluggishness; (n.) emotional sensitivity
lassitude (n.) weariness, lack of energy, exhaustion
latent (adj.) present but dormant and concealed
laudatory (adj.) admiring; (adj.) expressing of praise
lewd (adj.) inclined to lechery and/or vulgar behavior, obscene
liquidate (v.) to break up; (v.) to pay a debt; (v.) to close a business; (v.) to exterminate or murder
lissome (adj.) physiologically flexible; (adj.) agile
livid (adj.) discolored; (adj.) very angry; (adj.) overcome with overwhelming emotion
lope (v.) to sprint or scamper
lucent (adj.) clear; semi-transparent; (adj.) transparent
lucid (adj.) clear and cogent; (adj.) articulate and well-spoken; (adj.) rational, cool-headed
lugubrious (adj.) characterized by sadness; (adj.) mournful, dismal
luminous (adj.) radiating or reflecting light, shining; (adj.) brilliant
luster (adj.) the state or quality of reflecting light, shine; (adj.) radiance of beauty
machinate (v.) to contrive or plot; (v.) to conspire
malediction (n.) a curse; (n.) the uttering of a curse
malefactor (n.) a person who violates the law; (n.) reprobate
malignant (adj.) evil and spiteful, showing ill-will and/or hatred towards others
malingerer (v.) to feign illness, particularly in an effort to avoid duty or work
masticate (v.) to chew; (v.) to reduce to a pulp by squashing or compressing
mediocre (adj.) of moderate or ordinary quality
mellifluous (adj.) smoothly flowing; (adj.) sweetened with honey
menial (adj.) lowly and degrading, particularly in relation to work; (adj.) servile and submissive
mettle (adj.) courage, fortitude
minion (n.) a subordinate or underling
misgivings (n.) doubts, uncertainties, reservations
mishap (n.) an accident, calamity or disaster of an accidental nature
modish (adj.) stylish, trendy
morbid (adj.) implying an unhealthy state, attitude or interest in death; (adj.) gruesome, grisly
mordant (adj.) caustic or sarcastic; (adj.) corrosive
morose (adj.) melancholy, gloomy
mulct (v.) to defraud or deprive someone of something
munificent (adj.) characterized by generosity
mutable (adj.) able to be adapted or changed; (adj.) capricious
myriad (n.) an indefinite or unlimited number of person or things; (n.) ten thousand
nadir (n.) a low point or rock bottom, in terms of adversity or despair
nauseate (v.) to sicken or disgust
nebulous (adj.) vague and indefinable
necrology (n.) a list of people who have died during a specified time period; (n.) an obituary
nemesis (n.) a task a person is unable to conquer; (n.) an archenemy, opponent or rival; (n.) vengeance
neophyte (n.) a novice or trainee; (n.) a person newly inducted into or converted into a faith or belief of a religious and/or spiritual nature
nicety (n.) a delicate or fine point; (n.) a detail
noisome (adj.) offensive or disgusting; (adj.) harmful
novice (n.) a beginner or apprentice
noxious (adj.) harmful or poisonous in nature; (adj.) characterized by unpleasantness or offensiveness
numismatist (adj.) a person who collects money, coin or metals
nurture (v.) to feed and protect; (v.) to bring up, educate; (v.) to develop
obsequious (adj.) characterized by a servile nature; (adj.)flattering, submissive.
obsession (n.) a fixation or passion
obstreperous (adj.) hostile and bad-tempered
obtrude (v.) to thrust forward upon a person; (v.) to project or stick out
occult (adj.) of or pertaining to magic or astrology and involving secretive supernatural powers; (adj.) mysterious; hidden; (n.) supernatural affairs
odorous (adj.) having a distinct odor; (adj.) scented
offal (n.) the parts of a butchered animal considered inedible for human beings; (n.) rubbish, garbage
olfactory (adj.) relating to the sense of smell
omniscient (adj.) having complete and unlimited knowledge, awareness and understanding
omnivorous (adj.) eating both animal and plant based foods
onus (n.) a burdensome responsibility; burden of proof
opportunist (n.) one who seized prospective opportunities; (n.) pioneer, trailblazer
opprobrious (adj.) expressing of disdainful reproach; (adj.) conduct that yields disgrace or infamy
ostensible (adj.) apparent and inconspicuous
pacify (v.) to bring about or restore a peaceful state of mind; (v.) to appease; (v.) to subdue into submission, particularly by the use of military force
palliate (v.) to relieve or lessen; (v.) to mitigate
paltry (adj.) measly; (adj.) wretched
panacea (n.) a remedy for all ailments, illnesses or disease; (n.) an answer or solution for all problems
panoply (n.) a diverse range or display; (n.) a whole suit of armor; (n.) ceremonial attire
paradox (n.) a statement or circumstance which seems intrinsically self-contradictory; (n.) any person thing or circumstance which displays an inherently contradictory nature
paragon (n.) a model or archetype of excellence; (v.) to compare
pariah (n.) an outcast; (n.) a person or animal that is overtly avoided
parsimonious (adj.) excessively thrifty and economical; (adj.) cheap
pathos (n.) that which invokes and arouses feelings of awe, pity or sorry; (n.) the feeling of pity and arousal
peculation (n.) the fraudulent misuse of funds or property entrusted to you but not owned by you; (n.) embezzlement
pecuniary (adj.) of or relating to money
penance (n.) a punishment to atone for a sin; an atonement
perfunctory (adj.) performed out of routine or duty; (adj.) lacking genuine or sincere interest
perjury (n.) the intentional giving of false statements while under sworn oath in a court of law
perspicacious (adj.) having acute mental perception and understanding
pertinent (adj.) relevant and applicable to a situation or set of circumstances
petrify (v.) to frighten or terrify; (v.) to solidify or turn to stone
philanthropist (n.) one who works to bring about the well-being of human kind through charitable donations and/or actions
phobia (n.) a specific fear of an object or situation
pillage (v.) to plunder and rob; (v.) to take in war as booty
pious (adj.) devout in a religious sense; (adj.) self-righteous
piquant (adj.) pungent and/or spicy in taste or flavor
placate (v.) to appease or pacify someone
plebeian (adj.) common, "blue-collar," working-class
pommel (v.) to beat or strike; (n.) a knob on the hilt of a sword
posterity (n.) future generations, a person's descendants
prattle (v.) to idly chatter or babble
precipitate (v.) to bring about, lead up to or hasten; (adj.) impulsive, rash
preponderance (n.) a prevalence or predominance (as something having heavy weight, quantity or power)
prestige (n.) esteemed status or standing; (n.) reputation
probe (v.) to look into and investigate a situation or individual
probity (n.) integrity and honor; (n.) decency
prodigal (adj.) lavish and wasteful; (adj.) uncontrolled
promulgate (v.) to make known, particularly one's opinions or theories; (v.) to publicize; (v.) to publicly teach a doctrine or creed
propensity (n.) a tendency or inclination toward something; (n.) a predisposition
propound (v.) to put forward or offer; (v.) to propose or promote
prototype (n.) an example or mode; (n.) a trial product
provoke (v.) to aggravate, incite or irritate; (v.) to cause or bring about
puerile (adj.) childish and immature
pugnacious (adj.) characterized by an aggressive and contentious nature
punctilious (adj.) meticulous and scrupulous in nature; (adj.) socially correct and proper
purport (v.) to assert, claim or declare; to imply or suggest; (n.) significance, importance
putrid (adj.) in a state of decay or decomposition; (adj.) rotten; (adj.) rank
quagmire (n.) a situation or predicament from which disentanglement proves difficult; (n.) a swamp or marsh
quay (n.) a dock or pier constructed along the edge of a body of water
queasy (adj.) inclined to or experiencing nausea
quiescent (adj.) at rest; (adj.) inactive
quietude (n.) tranquility and stillness; (n.) peacefulness
quixotic (adj.) idealistic in an unrealistic manner, (adj.) dreamy
ramification (n.) a development, consequence or outcome that results from a problem
rancid (adj.) sour, rotten
raucous (adj.) harsh and strident; wild, (adj.) boisterous
ravage (v.) to devastate and destroy; (v.) to plunder and ransack
recapitulate (v.) to repeat in a concise and succinct manner; (v.) to summarize or reiterate
recession (n.) a depression or decline
reciprocate (v.) to return or give back to
rectify (v.) to correct, remedy and/or make right
reek (v.) to stink or smell in a foul manner; to show signs of or suggest (n.) a foul stench or smell
refulgent (adj.) brilliantly shining and/or gleaming (re-fulgent, like effulgent)
relinquish (v.) to give up or actively surrender
remiss (adj.) careless or negligent; (adj.) thoughtless
renunciation (adj.) the act of turning away from, rejecting or denying (self denial)
repository (n.) a place in which things are safely kept; (n.) a warehouse; (n.) a tomb
reprisal (n.) retaliation and/or an act of vengeance
reprobate (n.) a degenerate; (n.) a depraved person
resplendent (adj.) brilliantly shining and gleaming
retaliate (v.) to revenge a wrong; (v.) to counterattack
revelry (n.) festivities and celebrations; (n.) partying
reverberate (v.) to echo, resound; (v.) to ring
rigor (n.) strictness or severity in temperament or action
robust (adj.) strong, healthy and hearty in physical condition
rococo (adj.) ornate, decorative
ruddy (adj.) reddish or rosy
rustic (adj.) rural, country; pastoral
sacrilegious (adj.) expressing of irreverence toward what is held sacred
sagacious (adj.) showing keen discernment and exemplary judgment
salient (adj.) prominent, markedly conspicuous
salubrious (adj.) favorable to and fostering of body and/or mind health
salutary (adj.) beneficial, constructive
sangfroid (n.) coolness and composure, especially amidst trying and challenging circumstances
sanguine (adj.) confident and optimistic, upbeat
sardonic (adj.) characterized by a scornful and derisive attitude or nature
satiate (v.) to supply in excess, (v.) to more than fully satisfy
scrupulous (adj.) characterized by a conscientious and meticulous nature
seethe (v.) to churn, boil; (v.) to fume or boil with rage; (v.) to teem, swarm
sequester (v.) to remove or withdraw into solitude; (v.) to remove or separate
serrated (adj.) possessing a jagged or saw-like edge
shoal (n.) a place in which a body of water is shallow; any large number of people or things (v.) to cause to become shallow
simulate (v.) to create a model, representation or recreation of
skeptic (n.) one characterized by a cynical and doubting nature
skimp (v.) to sparingly withhold
slander (n.) defamation; words falsely spoken that damage someone's reputation
sloth (n.) laziness and apathy, a disinclination toward work
slough (n.) the out layer of the skin; (v.) to shed or cast off
smattering (n.) a superficial knowledge of something
somatic (adj.) of or related to the body, physical
sophomoric (adj.) immature or overconfident and conceited
spate (n.) a sudden outpouring or overwhelm
specious (adj.) false, bogus
squalid (adj.) unclean to the degree of filth; (adj.) seedy or immoral
squander (v.) to waste or throw away
stalemate (n.) a situation in which further action is obstructed and not possible
stigma (n.) a mark or token of infamy; (n.) disgrace and dishonor
stipend (n.) a periodic payment or schedule of fixed pay
stupor (n.) a daze or state of unconsciousness
stymie (v.) to present an obstacle, to stand in the way of
subversive (adj.) undermining; dissident or rebellious, particularly against an established authority or government
succinct (adj.) brief, concise and to the point
sully (v.) to smear and dishonor; (v.) to pollute or contaminate
sumptuous (adj.) luxurious and costly, (adj.) extravagant
supersede (v.) to replace in power or authority; to surpass
surmise (v.) to infer or guess without conclusive evidence
surreptitious (adj.) sly, sneaky and covert
swathe (v.) to wrap or enfold; (n.) a strip, ribbon or band
swelter (v.) to suffer from excessive and overbearing heat
symmetry (n.) balance and proportion
synchronous (adj.) occurring at the same time, simultaneous
taciturn (adj.) characterized by a reserved and quiet nature, uncommunicative
tactile (adj.) tangible and concrete
tantalize (v.) to torment and/or torture ; (v.) to excite or entice
tantamount (adj.) equivalent in value and/or force
taut (adj.) tight, rigid and staff; (adj.) tense, worried
tedium (n.) the quality or state of being worrisome
temporal (adj.) chronological and sequential; (adj.) earthly and secular
tenebrous (adj.) dark or gloomy
tenet (n.) an opinion, principle or doctrine
tepid (adj.) lukewarm, halfhearted; moderate
terrestrial (adj.) earthly and worldly
testy (adj.) bad-tempered, crotchety, touchy
throes (n.) a violent spasm or pain; (n.) a condition of agonizing struggle
timidity (adj.) lacking in self-assurance or courage; (n.) nervousness and apprehensiveness
timorous (adj.) fearful
titillate (v.) to excite or arouse; (v.) to tickle by lightly stroking
tome (v.) a book or volume
toxic (adj.) of or relating to a poisonous and potentially lethal nature
translucent (adj.) transparent; (adj.) easily understood
travail (n.) a painfully difficult and burdensome work
trek (v.) to make a slow and steady journey; (n.) a hike or walk
trepidation (n.) fear, apprehension; disquiet
troth (n.) faithfulness and fidelity; (n.) truth or verity
truncate (adj.) terminating abruptly by having an end or cut off point; (v.) to approximate by ignoring all terms aside from an elect one; to shorten or abbreviate
turbid (adj.) muddy due to sediment or foreign particles; (adj.) heavy, dark or dense; (adj.) in a state of turmoil
turpitude (n.) vile and baseless depravity; (n.) a base act
ubiquitous (adj.) existing or being everywhere at the same time; (adj.) omnipresent
umbrage (n.) a feeling of anger, usually caused by offense; (n.) indignation
unanimity (adj.) complete agreement and accord
uncanny (adj.) unsettling in an eerie and mysterious way; (adj.) mysterious, creepy
unconscionable (adj.) not restrained by good morals or scruples
unearth (v.) to bring up out of the earth; (v.) to dig up
unfeigned (adj.) sincere and genuine
ungainly (adj.) ungraceful and awkward; (adj.) clumsy
unison (adj.) in perfect accord
unseemly (adj.) not in accordance with acceptable standards or good taste; (adj.) markedly improper
unsullied (adj.) unblemished, untarnished, pure and immaculate
upbraid (v.) to criticize or scold
usury (n.) the lending or practice of money at exorbitant interest
vacuous (adj.) lacking contents; (adj.) lacking in intelligence or capacity
vagary (n.) an unexpected and/or unpredictable action or behavior
vapid (adj.) lacking in life or flavor; (adj.) flat, dull
vegetate (v.) to grow or sprout; (v.) to exist in a state of inactivity
vehement (adj.) zealous and ardent; (adj.) strongly emotional
venerable (adj.) deserving and worthy of respect by virtue of position, age, character or position; (adj.) worthy of reverence, within a religious context
verbose (adj.) wordy and long-winded; (adj.) garrulous
versatile (adj.) capable of and competent in multi-tasking or displaying of multi-talents; (adj.) varied, changeable
vestige (n.) a trace, mark or indication; (n.) evidence
viable (adj.) capable of life and development; (adj.) feasible and practical
victuals (n.) food supplies (fit for human consumption)
vindictive (adj.) malicious, bitter, mean or cruel
vitiate (v.) to impair or reduce the quality of
vivacious (adj.) lively and full of spiritedness
volition (n.) the act of making a willful and conscious decision; (n.) a conscious choice; (n.) the will
vouchsafe (v.) to grant in a condescending method
wane (v.) to decrease in strength or intensity; to draw to a close; (n.) a gradual decrease or decline; the waning of the moon
wanton (adj.) willful and unprovoked; (adj.) immoral; (adj.) merciless; (adj.) excessively (adj.) unrestrained; (adj.) playful; (adj.) spoiled
welkin (n.) sky
welter (v.) to heave, roll or toss; to lie bathed in; (n.) a flurry or muddle
whorl (v.) to spiral or twist
witticism (n.) a witty remark or message
wraith (n.) an apparition or phantom
wreak (v.) to inflict vengeance upon a person; (v.) to punish; (v.) to vent; (v.) to bring about
xenophobe (n.) a person who is afraid of foreigners and their customs
yank (v.) to abruptly pull with a strong movement; (v.) to jerk
yelp (v.) to utter a quick and sharp cry, as a result of pain
zeal (n.) passion for a person, cause or desire; (n.) fervor
zenith (n.) a peak or summit; (n.) the highest point or station
